Fault injection (#728)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: assets/docs/pages/resiliency/fault-injection.md

Test the resilience of your apps by injecting delays and connection failures into a percentage of your requests.

## About fault injection

Fault injection is a chaos engineering technique that lets you deliberately introduce failures and delays into the request path so you can test how your services behave under adverse conditions before those conditions occur in production.

> You can configure the following fault injection types with a {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}}:

Reviewer: if this gets imported, it will be a Enterprise..., maybe rephrase to just
```suggestion
You can configure the following fault injection types:
```

* **Delays**: Simulate timing failures such as network latency or overloaded backends by injecting a fixed delay before forwarding the request upstream.
* **Aborts**: Simulate crash failures by returning an HTTP or gRPC error code to the caller without forwarding the request.
* **Response rate limiting**: Simulate slow or degraded upstream connections by throttling the response body data rate.

Delays and aborts are independent of one another. When both are configured, a given request can be delayed only, delayed and then aborted, or aborted without a delay, depending on each fault's configured percentage.

Fault injection can be applied at the route level (via an HTTPRoute target) or at the gateway level (via a Gateway target). A route-level policy can also use `disable: {}` to opt out of a gateway-level fault injection policy.

For more information, see the [Fault injection API reference]({{< link-hextra path="/reference/api/#faultinjectionpolicy" >}}).

## Before you begin

{{< reuse "docs/snippets/prereq.md" >}}

## Delay requests {#delays}

Inject a fixed latency into requests before they are forwarded upstream.

> 1. Create a {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}} that injects a 5-second delay on 50% of all requests to the httpbin route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a policy that injects a 5-second delay on 50% of all requests to the httpbin route.
```

   | `faultInjection.abort.percentage` | The percentage of requests to abort. Defaults to `100`. |

3. Send a request to the httpbin app. Verify that the request is aborted with a 503 response.
   {{< tabs items="Cloud Provider LoadBalancer,Port-forward for local testing" tabTotal="2" >}}
   {{% tab tabName="Cloud Provider LoadBalancer" %}}
   ```sh
   curl -vi http://$INGRESS_GW_ADDRESS:8080/status/200 -H "host: www.example.com:8080"
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab tabName="Port-forward for local testing" %}}
   ```sh
   curl -vi localhost:8080/status/200 -H "host: www.example.com"
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

   Example output:
   ```
   HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable
   ...
   fault filter abort
   ```

## Cleanup

{{< reuse "docs/snippets/cleanup.md" >}}

```sh
kubectl delete {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}} httpbin-fault -n httpbin 
```

## Other configurations

Review other common fault injection configurations.

### Response rate limiting {#response-rate-limit}

Throttle the response body data rate to simulate slow or degraded upstream connections.

> 1. Create a {{< reuse "docs/snippets/trafficpolicy.md" >}} that limits the response rate to 8 kbits/s on all requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a policy that limits the response rate to 8 kbits/s on all requests.
```
